[Music]
so it's been almost 10 months since the
launch of amd's third generation ryzen
processors
and it crapped all over intel we all
knew it in fact intel was sitting there
hoping that
their coffee lake cpus like the 9900k
would compete against
the best that amd had to offer but
that wasn't enough in fact what they're
trying to do right now
is come up with another 14 anime refresh
called comet lake but look all jokes
aside i need to level with you guys
intel might not publicly admit it but
they know their new desktop cpus are in
a really bad place right now
they're doing everything they possibly
can to stop bleeding
until a new architecture and a new
manufacturing process is ready
remember amd had to go through this
years ago
in fact they had to last six years on 32
meters until
ryzen arrived and what's really
interesting is that this is the sixth
year
that intel is on 40 nanometers but let's
also not forget that the fx series from
amd
was targeted towards the market that was
more value focused
which kept fans happy one of intel's
major problems
is nearly every single one of amd's 3rd
gen ryzen processors are on sale right
now
this isn't an official price cut but it
still makes things look very different
right now than when comet lake was first
announced
a few weeks ago so can intel overcome
that
we're about to find out my friends but
first a quick message from our sponsor
the new fantax p300a enclosure is a
great value airflow focused frame
thanks to the all new mesh front panel
that is a single piece of metal for
highest mesh
area and durability the inside is nice
and simple plus an exhaust fan is
included check out the p300a
down below alright so this video is
going to be more benchmark focused and
if you're looking for more information
about the
architecture and about the processors
that intel has announced
make sure to check out our explained
video i've made a dedicated one covering
all of the new cpus
and you can check it out right over here
even though they're going to be almost
two dozen new comet lake cpus available
today
intel sent us two of them the core i9
10900k
which is the flagship and the core i5 10
600k
a more affordable option both are
completely unlocked for overclocking
but where they end up against amd is
very interesting you see the core i9
10900k is replacing the i9
9900k with more cores and higher clock
speeds
but with a price of 490 it's up against
a
pretty tough competitor and that's the
ryzen 9 3900 x
which usually goes for about 500 but
lately i've been seeing it floating
around for between
400 and 440 it'll be interesting to see
if those sales continue and if it
actually does
intel is going to be fighting an uphill
battle against a processor that has
a efficient manufacturing process
with more threats and a much lower price
tag as for the i5 10 600k
well as a replacement for the 9600k it
looks pretty good by offering double the
number of threads and slightly higher
frequencies
technically it's going head-to-head
against the six-core 12-threaded 3600x
but through the miracle of sales it's
going for just 205 dollars these days so
that means
the 10600k ends up almost hitting the
same price
as the um yeah the eight core
16 thread ryzen 7 3700x
which used to hit the 330 mark but
prices have dropped below 300 now there
are a few things that i want to mention
about these prices before going any
further
first of all sales don't last forever so
the ryzen 3000s might rise in cost
but i'm not entirely sure about that
also some of them are pretty old as far
as processors go
and amd did say that they will launch
the zen 3 this year
so until next gen ryzen cps roll out
this is the perfect
opportunity to keep those prices low and
really put the hurt on intel
now as for intel prices let's just say
that
i'll believe them when i see them online
so
take that with a grain of salt another
thing i want to talk about is clock
speeds because on these new cpus
there is a ton of variables when it
comes to hitting intel's advertised
frequencies
especially with the core i9 10900k it
actually has a ton of different
frequencies
many of which you've probably seen on
past intel cpus and all of them are
dependent on variables like power
temperatures and workload so there's a
base frequency of 3.7 gigahertz
and the usual turbo boost 2.0 which can
bring a single core up to 5.1 gigahertz
turbo boost 3.0 then enhances the
capability
by finding the fastest core and boosting
that one to even further
to 5.2 gigahertz in single threaded
workloads
then there's all core turbo frequency of
4.8 gigahertz
which is the theoretical maximum
sustained clock speed
when all cores and threads are fully
loaded the new addition here is what
intel calls
thermal velocity boost and it takes
frequencies to the next level
but only in very short bursts on your
cpu's two best cores
and under strict circumstances it'll
only be enabled if these cpu temps
is 70 degrees celsius or less and the
cpu's power package allows for higher
speeds
speaking of those boost levels i should
also mention that each motherboard
manufacturer has a different way
of addressing them and many tend to
operate outside
of intel's predefined limits so for
example asus automatically enables their
multi-core enhancement
which artificially enhances scores
meanwhile the latest version of
gigabytes bios extends power limits
so these new cpus will operate at higher
power thresholds
for longer periods of time we always
stick to intel's predefined stock
settings so
let's see what that translates to in
terms of clock speeds first of all
you can see here that the two best
course on the 10900k
i have over here is number four and
number five those are the only ones
that'll hit 5.3 gigahertz on
a single core by charting temperatures
and clock speeds over time on a single
core
you can see that speeds hitting that 5.3
gigahertz mark
but only occasionally this might only
tell half the story though since
our one second polling rate likely isn't
picking up some millisecond changes in
speed
so the 100k could be hitting the high
ratio more often than we see
but if you look towards the center of
the chart temperatures on this core
rose a bit which likely meant another
windows process started eating up some
resources
since temperatures stayed below 60
degrees celsius and package power was
super low as well
technically the frequencies should have
stayed between 5.1 gigahertz and 5.3
gigahertz
but they didn't honestly this just shows
just how damn picky intel's boost
algorithm is but what about multi-core
workloads like maya render
well starting things off with a default
fan speed profile on the asus
motherboard
and a noctua u12s that i'm using here
things got
interesting temperature spiked before
the heatsink fans could catch up
but then they leveled out way under
intel's 70 degree threshold
for thermal velocity boost as for clock
speeds
well the first 30 seconds shows clocks
hitting really impressive speeds
as intel's short duration power limit
gives a more relaxed setting
but that also caused the temperature to
increase then
intel's long duration power limit sets
in and frequencies and temperatures go
to a nosedive with the 100k varying
between 4.1
and 4.2 gigahertz but what happens when
we add more cooling
would the chips stay at higher speeds
well i stuck two fans running 100 on the
u12 s
and the temperatures never got above 75
degrees celsius
which should mean we'd hit higher
average clock speeds right
well no after that short burst of speed
it leveled out around 4.2 gigahertz
again which is
way under intel's 4.8 gigahertz claim
but there's nothing new about that
this seems to be more about package
power limits rather than temperatures
getting intel cpus to hit their turbo
frequencies on a constant basis
usually involves overclocking and what
about the 10600k
well it doesn't have thermal velocity
boost or turbo boost max 3.0 and its
behavior was quite different
it's all core speeds remained really
consistent over the course of the test
so now that we have a better
understanding of how these cpus behave
let's dive into the benchmarks but
before that i'll pause here for a bit
just so you can go over our test system
configuration
so feel free to pause go over all the
setups
yeah okay so starting off with cinebench
single core
and this is one area where intel has
always been strong
even though amd has made some really big
steps towards improving
their performance here but moving on to
multi-core workload and
well intel's comet lake is a big
improvement over their previous
generation
but in comparison to amd it just
isn't enough one of the biggest concerns
here is the 10600k
which has the same number of processing
threads as the 3600x
still falls short moving on to real
world testing the first thing that i
wanted to tackle is adobe premiere pro
since it's been through a couple of
really important revisions lately
that we needed to talk about let's start
things off with the baseline rendering
without any hardware acceleration
this situation perfectly illustrated
what would happen with a multi-pass
render or with encoding options that
only support software encoding
here intel's pane is pretty evident and
while the 10900k loses
the 10600k gets absolutely creamed
it barely offers any better performance
than the 9600k
this next test shows how currently intel
can leverage their quick sync feature to
accelerate video encoding
sure their cpus are ahead but look a bit
closer and there's
obviously no reason to spend more money
on an i9
since the integrated graphics module
becomes the bottleneck but adobe has
been pretty busy lately rolling out
hardware acceleration for more than just
intel
in its latest release and 14.3 beta both
amd and nvidia gpus are able to offer
hardware acceleration which will even
the playing field
in a big way let's take a look at how
that turns out
with an rtx 2080 ti installed so
this came as a bit of a surprise while
intel has completely lost their massive
lead
they're still able to stay ahead of amd
why
let's drill down a bit to see what's
actually happening here here you can see
that in the current hardware accelerated
build the intel gpu is responsible for
video decoding
the nvidia card takes care of some
copying tasks and the cpu crunches
through encoding and a bunch of other
things
switching over to the 14.3 beta allows
every resource to be properly used in
parallel that means
video encode is being done by nvidia's
and bank encoder
the intel graphics takes care of
decoding and the cpu is still being used
but a lot less than before so the
integrated gpu is still
used here and allows comet lake to stay
in front by a bit
this also makes me really interested to
see how amd's apus do here
moving on to resolve and here the intel
cpus are pretty competitive
but not by all that much the close
results are because this program is
really gpu dependent when its hardware
acceleration is enabled
basically you have the gpu working away
at almost 100
while the cpus only deal with light
workloads
as for the rest of tests well what you
see here is
a really similar situation playing out
again and again in any situation
where there's an all-core load amd
completely dominates anything intel can
offer
meanwhile in mixed workloads like you
find in some programs
intel stays ahead but really not by all
that much for example
would i buy the 10900k or the 10600k
over the 3900x
or the 3600x for something like
metashape well based on andy's current
prices
absolutely not because the ryzen series
would give me more quality core
flexibility
for other programs too rather than just
being strong in one area
as a matter of fact depending on where
the 10 600 case retail price lands
it might have a really big problem with
the 3700x
even for lightly threaded workloads
switching to blender
it's a switch back to the pain game for
intel versus amd but
to their benefit the new i9 and i5 cpus
do offer a lot more performance than
coffee lake
that'll be a big deal for intel buyers
and applications like autodesk maya
but all in all it just feels like amd
has a better rounded lineup
that balances multi-core domination with
very good single core
results moving on to gaming and this is
an area where intel claims their i9
10900k is the fastest cpu that has ever
been created
well let's put those claims to the test
and
yeah it looks like these results really
do put things into perspective don't
they
modern warfare does seem to really like
high core counts and speeds
but it's the only game in the situation
i mean sure the 100k and the 10600k do
provide
really good frame rates but those small
chart differences doesn't lead to a
subjectively better experience in any
way
even the one percent lows are pretty
identical across the board i could have
loaded things in intel's favor by
benchmarking at a low resolution but
that's just not a realistic situation
for someone spending hundreds of dollars
on a cpu
as it stands we're using the most
powerful gpu on the market right now
and using it at 1080p yeah it just
it still becomes a bottleneck look if
you only want a system for gaming
purposes
avoid the 100k the 3900x the 3700x the
10600k
or any other high-end cpu for that
matter just get yourself an affordable
processor
and maximize on your graphics card
budget and thank us later
so with that out of the way i think it's
time to tackle something that a lot of
people were concerned about
when they heard intel was going to push
higher core counts
and higher frequencies on the same old
14 nanometer process
and that is temperatures and power
consumption back at the beginning of
this video we've already seen that
temperatures
are fairly manageable with a decent air
cooler like the noctua u12s
it also feels like intel throttles their
clock speeds based on
power consumption rather than heat so
what does that really mean well taking a
look at the package power over time
it really conveys an interesting story
starting with the 10900k
and already there's a problem that was
evident earlier
this thing sucks down a huge amount of
electricity in the first 30 seconds
of all core load yep that's about 225
watts
and since most synthetic benchmarks like
cinebench don't take
that long to complete this out-of-spec
behavior will artificially inflate intel
scores
luckily this won't impact our results
since most of our tests are real-world
scenarios
that take a while to complete now after
that huge boost
it's almost like an algorithm saying
whoops i shouldn't be doing this
and stamped things back in line to the
rated 125 watts
remember this is supposedly an intel's
defaults without any motherboard
specific enhancements enabled
but looking at this makes me wonder if
the asus board
isn't still doing something behind the
scenes now taking a look at the 10600k
and because it doesn't have the turbo
boost max 3.0
or thermal velocity boost its behavior
is a lot more predictable it remains
flat 100 watts through the entire test
and what does that mean for power
consumption
of the whole system well over the course
of a 15-minute test
both of those processors are relatively
efficient all things considered
but just like we saw there's a lot more
to it
with the core i9 10 900k if we factor
peak power consumption into that
equation
the 10900k gets all bent out of sorts
this actually pisses me off right now
since this can totally throw off power
supply calculations and
it can also push less capable heat sinks
right off the edge
on that note i think it's time to wrap
up this review while the addition of new
cores
and threads make these new cpus a bit
more competitive in my opinion
it's too little and way way too
late because intel had the opportunity
to stop their bleeding back when
coffee lake was launched but instead it
was the same old
endless identical refreshes basically
intel buried their heads in sand
and let ryzen walk all over them now
comet lake can be really really fast in
some situations
but it feels like a generation behind at
prices that have already been undercut
by some amd cpu sales
it's also coupled to a z490 platform
which brings absolutely
nothing new to the table but what if
they're wearing any sales
well i'd still recommend the ryzen 9
3900x over the core i9 100k because
it's just a versatile all-round
processor the same story goes for the
3600x
i still recommend that cpu over the core
i5
10 600k competition is good though so i
guess the best thing i can say about
these new processors is
they're causing lower rising prices and
hopefully intel can adjust their
strategy to somehow compensate
before zen 3 hits so that's it for me
guys thank you so much for watching
stay safe spend responsibly and i'll
talk to you guys
in the next one